<dl><dt>24 May 2019</dt></dl>Neither the BOM nor the sketch are updated fully for the latest circuit.
<dl><dt>20 May 2019</dt></dl>Pondering done, I will utilize the ADL5315 (for pico-scale adaptation and plant level signal current creation and duplication) along with two LM334s (for programability with MCP4262s, tempco offsetting, and micro-scale adaptation needed for the REF200AU) and the REF200AU (for high impedance current-to-voltage signal transcreation).  The high impedance that the REF200AU offers is needed to maintain viability of a pico-scale signal current amongst the micro-scale operating current.  Although pico-scale signal viability may end up being wishful thinking, I'm confident from reading the datasheets that at least nano-scale viability will be within reach. 
<dl><dt>17 May 2019</dt></dl>I have decided to dramatically change the front end of the circuit in v.6 to do away with the LM334's and the REF200AU in favor of the ADL5315 if I can figure out how to convert a few nA sourced signal current to a signal voltage centering at 1.5VDC without lowering its impedance into oblivion (where oblivion happens to be the very range of the MCP4262s that I'm using :-().  However, I've already ordered boards to be made at the v.5 level, and those boards will be delivered in a week or two.  I'll probably build them out as my reference point while I ponder...

<dl><dt>10 May 2019</dt></dl>While we await this latest PCB to be made and sent to me, I'll explain that I do expect a certain amount of undesirable temperature effect on the circuit and I don't intend to use mathematics to predict its amount and design it away.  Instead, I'll wait and take the empirical approach to deal with that.  Suffice it to say at this point that you should try to maintain an unvarying temperature on the circuit board during operation until v.6 of this project.

<dl><dt>09 May 2019</dt></dl>The still untested v.5 circuit board design is here: https://github.com/kenneth558/plant_resistance_primary_perception/blob/Free/embeddeds/v.5%20training%20aid%20board%20gerbers.zip.  No further circuit changes after that should be expected until I decide how to incorporate temperature compensation based on experimentation with v.5.  Alternately, I may decide to incorporate the ADL5315 in v.6 to replace the two LM334's and REF200AU.  Regardless, v.5 PCB version contains helpful construction-time diagnostic capability for helping the person building the board to catch any soldering mistakes (shorts and opens) early enough to repair them without having to remove umpteen other components that would otherwise block access to the soldering mistakes that will be inevitable sometime, somewhere.  This PCB version also contains an untested sensitivity enhancement which can be jumpered out of operation in case it ends up not being viable.

<dl><dt>26 Apr 2019</dt></dl>As of 26 Apr 2019, I have not gotten any PCB rendition of this circuit working, plus I've decided to incorporate additional circuitry onto the board which will enhance sensitivity to a more reasonable capability. The board space that the additional circuitry uses forces me to use SMD much more, thus requiring extensive layout redesign. That board will be Rev 4. [UPDATE: V.4 design aborted due to the coming of a second enhancement that caused me to pause v.4 development] Though I personally have not gotten the circuit working with the PCB design I publish here, I do believe someone with electronics skills will be able to gain a great deal of headway with it. (I am talking about Rev 3.). I am proceeding at a leasurely pace with Rev 4 [UPDATE: v.5] PCB design.
<dl><dt>17 Apr 2019</dt></dl>My first try with MCP4262 dual dPots and a real printed circuit board is not working.  Am troubleshooting....

<dl><dt>08 Apr 2019</dt></dl>I have corrected the known errors in the printed circuit board design.  These errors were: Q1-3 body shown in silkscreen was backwards and VR1-2 adjustment directions were backwards.  I also spread apart the leads for Q1-3 and for U1-2.  The new board is designated v.3 in the file name.

<dl><dt>07 Apr 2019</dt></dl>After trying unsuccessfully to place components on my first three boards, I offer this word of advice: use low-temp solder on the MSOP packages.  I delaminated those traces on two boards while the third board is left with shorts who knows where.  Though I know the boards were subjected to higher soldering temperatures than my previous soldering jobs, I feel just the same that by paying the highest price in the world for this batch, I should have received more durable boards...thank you for bearing with the complaint.

<dl><dt>01 Apr 2019</dt></dl>Increased value of R2 from 1Mohm to 1.5Mohm for possibly a little better temperature tracking with the DUT leg.  Improved the Bill of Materials to be an interactive web page (download/offload it because GitHub won't serve it as its own web page like needs to be done for it).  May populate it later with vendors, but its main use is to track components as they are placed on the board.  Components need to be soldered lowest profile ones first so the taller ones don't get in the way of the soldering iron and burnt.

<dl><dt>29 Mar 2019</dt></dl>I added a green LED for confidence that the electrodes are connected properly.  I uploaded my PCB gerber files to here: https://github.com/kenneth558/plant_resistance_primary_perception/blob/Free/embeddeds/v.5%20training%20aid%20board%20gerbers.zip (link updated for v.5 09 May 2019).  The BOM is near the bottom of this page: https://github.com/kenneth558/plant_resistance_primary_perception/blob/Free/More%20construction%20details.md

<dl><dt>14 Mar 2019</dt></dl>I completed the PCB design and will use tomorrow to find a PCB maker beginning with local sources (a community college, a state university).  Have received most of the components to build the innards of several training aids.  When we have a couple working training aids, I will develop the best form of the rest of the training station design to include the project box. Top view of circuit board: https://github.com/kenneth558/plant_resistance_primary_perception/blob/Free/embeddeds/top%20side%20training%20aid%20extension.png  Bottom view of circuit board: https://github.com/kenneth558/plant_resistance_primary_perception/blob/Free/embeddeds/top%20side%20training%20aid%20extension.png

<dl><dt>26 Feb 2019</dt></dl>Note that the latest sketch version contains an untested feature - gain adjust via potentiometer or a 3 position switch with voltage divider resistors.  Also I have not tested any gain other than 128, and to remind you, a gain of 32 is going to require INA+/- of the HX711 to be paralleled with INB+/- of that same HX711.
I am still working on the PCB design, and until I master that, I don't foresee any other project advancement happening.  UPDATE - 14 March 2019 - still working on the PCB design in KiCad.

<dl><dt>20 Feb 2019</dt></dl>Using KiCad for making a PCB from my first schematic is SO un-intuitive for me b/c I set some traps for myself in the way I created the schematic.  Seems like I'll have to create a new schematic from scratch while I simultaneously develop the PCB with each change I make in the schematic.  This sets my expectations aback.  On another note, I'll be adding a visual and/or audible indicator to assist the operator in achieving enough conductance while placing the plant-side (upper) electrode.  If you remember, I decided that the standard electrode placement will be with the reference electrode pushed into the soil or other root-circuit substrate.  Electrically, the reference electrode can be either one during this development phase via the 4-way switch, but mechanically it will be fitted with a probe instead of the flat conductive sheets.

<dl><dt>15 Feb 2019</dt></dl>In studying the HX711 datasheet better, I understand how INA and INB (channel A and channel B inputs) are selected to be read from.  To read at a gain of 32 I simply parallel INA+/- with INB+/- and compile the sketch for 32 gain.  That is nice because the plant I attached to needed a substantially lower gain than the 128 I used for it.  Since I left channel B inputs at NC (no connection), I will have to so some soldering and schematic modifying.  Where the AD8244 buffers where paralleled, I will change the wiring to have one pair of buffers drive the INA and the other pair drive INB.  Simple as that.

One single challenge remains to me: configuring the electrodes so as to acquire high enough conductivity for the LM334 circuit to work by surface contact electrodes.  Right now, I can only achieve high enough conductance for meaningful operation if I pierce the leaf membrane with the signal electrode.

<dl><dt>31 Jan 2019</dt></dl>I've been considering what the best electrode design is to be, and I've discovered a company named ERG Aerospace Corp. that makes what they call Reticulated Vitreous Carbon (RVC) that I believe would be a fine active electrode surface. I've ordered a sample from their U.S.A. distributor, Duocel.  I'm sure hoping to obtain all subassemblies and parts from Judeo-Christian friendly economy sources, so I'm happy that this source qualifies.

<dl><dt>30 Jan 2019</dt></dl>With the higher than anticipated resistance, my plan is that one electrode will be put into the ground and the other will be placed onto leaf surfaces (multiple, if needed) so that a much greater contact area can result in a lower resistance.

<dl><dt>21 Jan 2019</dt></dl>A big Thank You! to the maker bunch at Turbine Flats in Lincoln, NE for letting me demonstrate the GWAAM-Sea training aid.  What went wrong, you would ask.  In reality, the problem wasn't exactly the electrode contact resistance, but rather the resistance through the leaves.  That plant I brought to the demo was not selected based on the necessary criteria, which would have been its electrical conductivity.  Instead, it was selected based on availability and price.  It was from a funeral of an uncle of mine last summer.  Its conductance through the leaves was just far higher than the sketch as of today is able to handle.  It remains to be seen whether its conductance is too low for the circuit with LM334 being used.  If I find out it is too low, I just may modify the bridge to use only dpots - a bit more expensive of a scenario.  My first course of action will be to invert the initial linearity calibration such that the bridge balancing begins with maximum dpot resistance rather than minimum.

<dl><dt>15 Jan 2019</dt></dl>YOU NOW HAVE THE PUBLISHED VERSION v.Free, DATED 15 JAN 2019 THAT IS FUNCTIONAL TO THE EXTENT I RAN IT.  To read about the only configuration I've run it under, see [Current Operational Status](https://github.com/kenneth558/plant_resistance_primary_perception/blob/Free/Current%20Operational%20Status.md)  Testing now has to be done to locate all bugs.  Many defunct and obsolete remnants and printed messages remain.  I do intend to add wifi connectivity and SD Card local storage in the future.  I do expect bugs to be found, but they should be very easy ones to fix.  THANK YOU, LORD!

<dl><dt>08 Jan 2019</dt></dl>I've been working hard at this, which is due to several structuring changes that needed to be made in order to allow for various enhancements.  The new structure is now complete.  Bug track-downs are next.  None of the remaing bugs should necessitate the whole scale re-writes that have taken so much time.  They should be simple fixes, but I'll take a few hours of leisure right now.

<dl><dt>17 Dec 2018</dt></dl>Taking time from sketch development in order to beef up the prototype circuit from residing on breadboard to more residing on perfboard.  I wish I had a fiberglass perfboard lying around, but all I find is phenolic.  That will have to do for now...

<dl><dt>11 Dec 2018</dt></dl>A person could wonder why I'm not providing updates more often.  There seem to be several reasons for that, one of which is that when I am in the process of investigating hinderance with the project, it may take several days for me to accurately discover down the cause.  Such is the case for the latest hinderance.  I thought I had it characterized correctly, but am having already to correct my post of a minute ago and I know better now than to even say what my initial incorrect posting was.  SIGH.

<dl><dt>08 Dec 2018</dt></dl>Sketch development is now the farthest along and working, just needing some cleanup before I put this latest version out for you.  Give me a day or so, please.  Thank you!  The sketch you will then have will be the skeletal basis for future enhancemants and expansion.

<dl><dt>03 Dec 2018</dt></dl>A follow-up to the idea of wifi capability: I believe I mention somewhere that I am writing this sketch specifically for the Arduino IDE Serial Plotter, which I am.  Connection to that Serial Plotter is unidirectional data flow, making an inherently bidirectional wifi connection a level beyond the immediate scope of development.  Not only that but the data flow also becomes incapable of connecting to the USB-only IDE plotter.  Wifi capability eventually will be part of my planned client-side development as evidenced by the fact that I've already started accommodating it by means of extensive data now being included in the outgoing data stream.  The Arduino serial plotter conveniently ignores this additional data, but a future client renderer will use it.  When I do get around to coding for the wifi, my current thinking is that it will utilize HTML5 SSE (preferred) or WebSockets (with the plant side being a web server), both of which I have not yet developed for.  Client-sent data would be via HTTP put() methods that would allow some means of operational adjustment at the plant end of the wifi connection.


My current state of development is debugging the predictive auto-adjust.  I tripped over an attempted WEMOS XI compatibility effort and have to go back over those changes I made during that effort.  All for nought, it seems, b/c I discovered the WEMOS XI has been discontinued.<SIGH>


UPDATE: Sollae Systems has developed Web Serial Plotter which uses WebSockets and integrates so well into the Arduino IDE that I would not have to code my own client-side renderer.  NICE!  The disadvantage is that my super-inexpensive ESP8266 modules will only be useful at the computer end of the wifi connection while the plant end would require a $$$ part costing more than all the rest of the circuitry combined, and I only hope their use of WebSockets over SSE is for the better.  I'm sure the PHP server is in their shield so it would be well nigh impossible to reverse engineer the PHPoc source code to emulate the expensive board at the plant end while still using the Sollae Systems Web Serial Plotter at the computer end. 


UPDATE: A more cost-effective solution would be a peer-to-peer wifi connection that down-converts the data back to USB.  Then I could use duffster's (duff2013's or duff's) more fancy ["Arduino Serial Plotter 2.0"](https://www.esp32.com/search.php?author_id=6107&sr=posts), if it will be made available.

<dl><dt>30 Nov 2018</dt></dl>Thanks to Brook for suggesting that I add wifi connectivity, SD Card storage and a means of plotting plant growth.  On attempting to include to first two, I've found RAM limitations could be a serious challenge with boards only having 32K RAM or less.  The plant growth idea may not even need to connect into the Arduino, if it could be a standalone video camera.  Unidirectional growth upward might easily be included, though.  I don't plan on offering any of these enhancements in the free sketch version.

<dl><dt>16 Nov 2018</dt></dl>Scalability changes made to the sketch.  DO NOT USE PREDATED VERSIONS TO ADVANCE DEVELOPMENT!!!!!!!  Many changes have been made as of this date to accommodate future scalability.  This specific upgrade effort has been what has kept me busy lately.  Had I not done this, I couldn't have improved the sketch beyond the very unimpressive level it stalled at.  There are still places that need attention, but I needed to get this scalable style out here for community involvement.  Somewhere along in the process I lost indenting, in case anyone would like to take that on as a little project.  Just fill out an Issues entry so we don't get multple people on that one project.

<dl><dt>2 Nov 2018</dt></dl>I'm rebuilding my prototype circuitry to improve robustness, considering that I'm traveling hither and yon with it.  I've made more progress with sketch transition, but there is still more to do with it.  The sketch posted in the base sketch directory here on GitHub is still as far along in performance as any version I am working on locally.

<dl><dt>22 Oct 2018</dt></dl>Using the 20 Sep version to regain functionality, I'm taking smaller, baby steps to expand the sketch.  My current goals are 

- to allow for use of less than 3 and more than 3 DPots/leg
- to allow for using DPots without LM334 in bridges
- to allow for using unbridged DPots
- to allow for multiple HX711s
and, of course
- to allow for faster conductance range changes when DUT conductance goes out of range.

In the meantime, I have coded a new pre-processor macro PLOT_ONLY_THE_SIGNAL_LEG_OF_SUPERIMPOSED_DPOT_LEG_BRIDGE_INBOARDS to suppress the reference plotlines of superimposed traces.  Using this macro, however, may alter the intuition behind specifying how many inboard lines are to be plotted.  I'm not concerned at all about that probable disconnect from intuition, since it is only a matter of very little experimentation for you to determine how many inboards to plot if you use the new macro.  Specifically, if you define this new macro in your compilation while superimposing bridged traces, fewer traces will be plotted than specified by the NUM_OF_INBOARDS_PLOTTED is defined for.  If this becomes confusing to users, I can consider changing it in the future.  It works great as is, so I'm moving on to the other goals in the meantime.

<dl><dt>11 Oct 2018</dt></dl>There was something to be said for the 20 Sep 2018 version even though it auto-adjusted slow.  At least it auto-adjusted whereas changes since then have never worked as well.  Am reverting back to 20 Sep in the auto-adjust respect only and re-publishing with other modifications included that do work fine.  Hope to finish this publish goal today....
<dl><dt>06 Oct 2018</dt></dl>Sketch versions dated today and later will now accommodate the dual pot version of MCP42xxx.  The way the second pot in the package is controlled to that its pin number will have the pin number of first pot in the package OR'd with a hex value of 40 (0x40) as being the pin number for the second digipot in the package in the defines section of the sketch right where the digipot pins are currently defined.  

<dl><dt>04 Oct 2018</dt></dl>Its been very slow progress in recent days as I realized the sketch needed an overhaul to its inter-function flow to remove some algorithm duplicates when I found it overly difficult to get the bracketing within the code correct.  Better to deal with it now than later.


One function to debug, then sketch will be published in beta test mode.  That function is labeled with an #error preprocessor directive for ease of locating.
<dl><dt>20 Sep 2018</dt></dl>Breakthrough with the software today.  I'll post the latest code and begin working on the electrodes aspect of the project.  It has non-predictive auto-adjust on the digipots and thus an auto adjust takes quite a bit of time.  I think the free version will stay that way.
<dl><dt>19 Sep 2018</dt></dl>Still working on this.  I'm suspicious of my breadboard connections being intermittent.  I will resort to soldering things together on a perfboard for increased robustness.
<dl><dt>16 Sep 2018</dt></dl>I'm able to dedicate more time to finishing this project now.  I need to give it the ability to auto-adjust to the widest range possible of operational conductance levels.  Up until now, I've only been getting the project to function  with the DUT being a fixed 1Mohm resistor, which now works very well in itself but is not very practical working with conductances other than 1Mohm.  Obviously, you can't expect a plant to be exactly centered on that value, so I'll be working on that now...
<dl><dt>26 Aug 2018</dt></dl>In the sketch, I've laid out the direction for the new array concepts in self-documenting macros.  If you compile the sketch, it will stop at an explicit preprocessor error line stating as much.  The rest of the sketch next needs to be brought into compliance with the macros as they are aptly named.  This new array concept should at last bring the sketch into a bug-free and useable state.  After a good night's sleep...
<dl><dt>26 Aug 2018</dt></dl>The sketch bugs I have been struggling against have been due to me wanting to develop in too straight of a course in that some arrays are made too multi-purpose and have indices that are too different, both from each other and in the various possible configurations.  That approach lends itself to too complex of troubleshooting.  I am breaking out those arrays into smaller, more specifically named dedicated arrays with more specifically named indices and macros/variables specifying their sizes simply to speed up sketch development.
<dl><dt>24 Aug 2018</dt></dl>Bug found relative to displaying multiple traces while one or more are from inboard analog pins in combo with magnified and who knows what.  I am forced by the reality of things to strongly suggest that  until this sketch has been bug-free at the latest revision level for at least three or four weeks, all potential users just hold off unless you are prepared to fix my sketch bugs.  Sorry.  The current "bug" might instead be circuit malfunction, but until I finish troubleshooting, I don't know.
<dl><dt>23 Aug 2018</dt></dl>Added ability to reduce the magnification via a pot connected to a spare analog input pin specified with a new preprocessor define POT_WIPER_TO_THIS_ANALOG_INPUT_PIN_TO_ADJUST_MAGNIFICATION_FACTOR.  Fixed all known bugs, specifically with magnification trace plotting.  One thing left to code is auto-adjust when readings go off-scale.  Code for this is commented out right now.  It will use preprocessor macro LOOP_COUNTER_LIMIT_THAT_TRACE_IS_ALLOWED_TO_BE_OFF_CENTER.  I have decided that the 10K digipots are better off being 5K instead.  Ordered new ones.  A few lines of code will have to be changed to use the lower values by adding 10 to some rollover literals.
<dl><dt>22 Aug 2018</dt></dl>I'm able to code periodically.  When I changed the plotting algorithm to handle larger values it generated a bit of required coding time that I'm in the middle of.  I also purchased a few 74LVC138 decoders to allow more digipot banks.  They should arrive today thanks to Arrow's free overnight shipping.
<dl><dt>10 Aug 2018</dt></dl>A number of non-project tasks have arisen that I need to place in higher priority than this.  Expecting nearly a month delay...
<dl><dt>02 Aug 2018</dt></dl>Not a memory management problem but is a casting problem: The print command won't print ( long long ), (long) is the closest it can get, and when casting down to a (long) is loses value.
<dl><dt>31 July 2018</dt></dl>I've noticed one sketch bug in the printing of the magnified traces in that they don't stay within bounds any more.  Older sketch versions never had that problem.  I'm not sure where it began, but it seems to be a memory management problem from my inital troubleshooting rather than any type of algorithm weakness.  I'll work on that when I'm able...
<dl><dt>29 July 2018</dt></dl>I finally feel confident in the condition of the sketch.  I have corrected all bugs that I've ever found in it and have it completed to a useful level.  I recommend using it with two LM334s in the Wheatstone bridge input stage - one LM334 in the positive half of each bridge leg.  Each LM334 in turn has its current controlled by three digipots in series - two MCP4162-104 and a MCP4162-103.  Note that the two MCP4162-104s may be able to be replaced by a single MCP4262-104 instead, but I have not tested that idea.  I would also recommend yet another resistance in series with those three to prevent too low of a set resistor value if the digipots associated with an LM334 should all get set to zeros (very likely considering I've not prevented endless loops).  Which tells me that there is still some sketch work to do relative to handling specific failure or over-limit conditions that can arise.  For now, though, I have other projects needing my attention.

I also recommend using an AD8244 if you can solder tiny things.  Perhaps I'll eventually employ small toroid inductors in series with the LM334s, but the noise level right now looks low enough.

To take the sketch operationally (the code will never be elegant in appearance) to a professional level, I will need to handle the input voltage level tracking on the electrode from the plant.  I say voltage but you do realize, I hope, that the voltage level is simply produced by the Wheatstone bridge and it correlates to a plant resistance.

Eventually, I'll get a schematic published for you.
<dl><dt>18 July 2018</dt></dl>My two HX711s read differently from each other, so I'll have to order two more.  Expect them no earlier than 30 July, costing me $3.03 due to added shipping cost to get them that early.  Until they come I'll work on repairing the differential conversion algorithm for negative 24-bit values, at least for two's complement ADC libraries like the HX711.
<dl><dt>17 July 2018</dt></dl>AD8244 arrived at 09:07.  Nice!  However, it's MSOP pin spacing is well less than SSOP.  I had to spread the pins a little bit to solder it onto the SSOP adapter board I had on hand.  Initial power up indicates I have a wire misplaced, but this is too late at night to continue today.  Tomorrow I would do well to focus on the garage roof instead of this project.
<dl><dt>16 July 2018</dt></dl>Since I conclude that buffers like AD8244 will be needed in any case, the Wemo XI Analog Inputs and ADS1x15 become just as viable as any other ADCs.  I will change comments in source code to that effect.

Received notice that my AD8244 has been shipped with overnight expidite, no extra charge.  ETA tomorrow, by 4:30pm.  Thank you, Lord!
<dl><dt>15 July 2018</dt></dl>Just discovered the HX711 input Z is way too low.  The datasheet hadn't specified it in any way, nor would I have deduced the implications anyway.  Regrouping...will need to use High-Z buffers (AD8244 or equivalent) or a different 24-bit ADC as the base device.  Ordered a AD8244....
<dl><dt>08 July 2018</dt></dl>My efforts continue to be sidetracked by the urgencies of property maintenance and repair.  My mower has broken irreparably, and with zero income, I haven't the money to do anything about it other than mow my lawn with a hand-held string trimmer.  I had to fire the crew that was repairing my garage due to their admitted inability to pass a drug test after I had been dismayed with their poor workmanship.  City hall has verbally indicated that the city is eyeing my property as being on the verge of getting written notices, only three which are allowed before city action to de-blight.  A realty company is having a hard time seeing a win-win path for me to sell due to the cost of fixing the house and garage.  

In light of all this, It would be irresponsible of me to work on this project at the expense of my house.  Progress on this telempathic gardening training aid, therefore, can be expected to be minimal for months to come.

<dl><dt>28 June 2018</dt></dl>My efforts have been sidetracked for some days by the urgencies of property maintenance and repair.

<dl><dt>20 June 2018</dt></dl>I had assumed the excitation voltage from the HX711 across the bridge circuit would be higher than it is in reality.  I though it would be high enough to include headroom for LM334s to operate in the upper halves of the bridge.  Not so.  The positive excitation voltage is less than 2.5 vdc using the high impedance scenario with the plant.  Not only that, but the negative bridge power is about a diode drop above ground.  I will have to supply the bridge from +5 and GND and see what that does to the noise floor.  Datasheet for HX711 says to supply less than within .1 vdc of Vdd, so I am risking a $1 part here...

<dl><dt>19 June 2018</dt></dl>I received the correct digi-pots and should be able to work on this project after I get some yard and house work done.  I added a .png screen shot file of a comparison between one inboard Analog Input vs. HX711.  Note that LM334s are being used as the top component of both bridge legs.  That will be a standard inclusion in the circuit hereafter.

I am still unsure of the 24-bit differential non-magnified display amplitude.  It seems far too insensitive because it should max out with a 20mV tweak up or down, and I don't see it maxing out at all.  I'll investigate.  The good news is that this is nothing more than my suspicions of display amplitude of the lesser important trace, so I'm not declaring it a bug and especially not a real problem.

<dl><dt>17 June 2018</dt></dl>[OBSOLETE:Since the Wemos XI/TTGO XI and maybe other boards have worthless Analog Input pins, yet] two full-scale input pins connected to the two bridge compare points can be very useful when a 24-bit high sensitivity load cell ADC is used, I am contemplating how to change the sketch to accommodate, not just one, but two add-on ADCs.  This will also enable the sketch to be used with micro-controller board without any Analog Input pins, and ARM micro-computers (which have no Analog Input pins).  The alternative of using an analog buffer for the Wemos/TTGO would not be scalable to boards that have no Analog Inputs at all. I envision one of the add-on ADCs to be a full-scale ADC used for digital potentiometer setting to balance bridge legs and the other ADC will be the high-sensitivity ADC for magnified display.  The full-scale ADC levels will only be displayed when DEBUG_BRIDGE_BALANCING mode is defined.  The inputs of both ADCs will be in parallel, so both must be high impedance.  Note that the ADS devices are indeed full-scale and inexpensive, but they are not truly high-Z.  

In my datasheet research, I am finding that inexpensive ADCs like the ADS1x15 in general undesireably make the source (the plant in this case) charge a S/H capacitor.[This point is moot if you just use an AD8244]  I'll investigate the ramifications of that after I get the digital potentiometers working to track and autobalance. 

I continue to be encouraged as I learn that most people I talk with pseudo-randomly accept the premise on which this project is based.  I really didn't use to think the acceptance level for telempathic horticulture was that high.  I'd say the time is finally right for this!

<dl><dt>15 June 2018</dt></dl>Received four MCP4162-103E/P instead of four MCP4162-104E/P...I've made the same mistake again!!!  Ordering again.

Using the MCP4162-103E/P that I had, I learned how to address two of them in case I need a second one in circuit for finer adjustment.

<dl><dt>08 June 2018</dt></dl>Had to re-order the programmable potentiometers due to the resistance value of 100 kOhm not being available from Chinese site, forcing me to order a 10 kOhm value that will require a series resistor and limit the adjustment range.  I must have gotten interrupted during that shopping effort and forgot to continue.  Will do what I can with the one I got and ordered from a stateside supply house for $5 shipping instead of free or pennies.  Upside is that I may receive the order in a week or two.

<dl><dt>05 June 2018</dt></dl>HX711 now supported...you'll have to balance the bridge yourself, though since my programmable potentiometer hasn't arrived.  Use a SAMPLE_TIMES of one.  I only tested with PGA A at default gain of 128.  This is a sensitivity breakthrough, since this little ADC converts a swing of a mere few millvolts into 24 bits compared with the ADS1115 converting rail-to-rail swing to 15 bits.  The ADS1115 sensitivity doesn't hold a candle to any ADC with a full-scale conversion range in the millivolts.  The library to use with HX711 is https://github.com/bogde/HX711  

I haven't completed constructing a satisfactory electrode subsystem yet...

<dl><dt>04 June 2018</dt></dl>Home maintenance issues are taking much of my time away from this project.  I am trying to develop a method of holding the electrode assembly against the leaf and keeping a good seal.  In a shopping trip to Menards-type and Walmart-type stores, I put together a few items to try various methods.

My programmable potentiometers haven't come in as of yesterday.  They are important for getting the HX711 going.  Otherwise, the only differential input devices I can support are those that have a full-scale range of near-rail-to-rail.

<dl><dt>29 May 2018</dt></dl>Considering supporting AD7780.  Looks like a good value 24-bit ADC for full-scale differential input...  ADS1242 as well.

<dl><dt>29 May 2018</dt></dl>Decided I will need to support the ADS1231 as well. The HX711 will be difficult due to max scale occuring at 0.08 volts or less, and I feel that will be wishful thinking at best to insist on that close of a match between A0 and A1 legs in the lay person world besides dealing with the noise from all sources and junction contacts at that amplification.  Considering LTC2400, AD779x and MAX112x0.

<dl><dt>28 May 2018</dt></dl>I realized the advantage of reading differential when using the LM334s.  When I get differential reads working it will allow use of 24-bit load cell-type ADCs.  I have two 24-bit HX711 on hand, so the project will eventually additionally use HX711.  I expect first or second  week of June will see this project working with differential while still keeping the capability for single-ended.  I have secured domain names for "reviving civility" and "telempathic horticulture" which point here where they will remain pointed until I get a better page built.

<dl><dt>19 May 2018</dt></dl>I received the LM334 and tested the noise level with and without it.  I am pleased to say that the noise level IS lower when that part is used in the circuit as the source of the current going through the plant signal electrode.  However, in my efforts to investigate into more detail, I discovered that the ADS ADC I was using is exactly what I ordered - an ADS1015.  That means it is only a 12-bit ADC, and I want the 16-bit ADC for greater resolution.  Work on this project will therefore be stalled until my newly-ordered ADS1115 arrives in a couple weeks (I paid $2.35 extra for expedited delivery this time).  24 May - ADS1115 arrived, but unable to work on it for a few days due to being out of town for an extended family gathering.

When I was testing with the LM334, which alternately is a temperature sensor, the temperature drift was too overwhelming to work without temperature compensation.  Temperature compensation is provided by a silicon diode and two resistors (instead of one) setting the current.  Those two resistors must be of an exact ratio to one another to cause the proper portion of the diode's temperature coefficient to exactly offset the LM334's opposite temperature coefficient.  Since I'm not going to force myself to buy the specified diode that provides exactly -10 times the LM334's temperature coefficient, and with programmable potentiometers available (AD5242 and MCP41100) I don't need to, I'm just going to use a common diode such as 1N4148/1N914/1N4000 and write Arduino code that will proportion the resistances correctly for whatever diode is in the circuit and store that as a calibration in EEPROM.  Writing that code will add another week or more because I'll need to have the right conditions drop into my lap to get the time and conditions to work on it.  (Note to myself: the 1N457 has/had a tempco of -2.5mV/C while a 1N4148 might be anywhere between -2mV/C and -2.5mV/C, a 1:7.8 vs. 1:10 resistor ratio.)  UPDATE - I intend to forego the diode idea in favor of software compensation ujtilizing a second LM334 circuit sending a temperature driven analog signal to a second analog input.

I am unable to find programmable pots of sufficient resistance to directly utilize the zero tempco circuit as presented in application notes, so I will have to try variations on that theme.  Add more days/weeks to the tempco effort with an as yet unpredictable outcome.

When I've finished these tasks, I hope to offer a good estimate of how much better the LM334 is than just using a resistor to supply the current to the plant.  I expect to find that the use of an LM334, two programmable potentiometers, and a diode or so will actually be indispensible to use in place of a simple series resistor to the signal electrode.
