##  <p align="center">John 14:12 Agronomy - Promoting a Reviving Civility (TM)
###  <p align="center">What does this project's title mean, anyway?

GWAAM-Sea (Greater Works Agronomy and Mountain Casting) refers to Bible verses quoting Jesus.  The terms agronomy and mountain casting are taken from Matt 21:19-21 where we know that Jesus killed a fig tree with a curse and when His disciples marveled, He extrapolated the moment and linked the action to casting mountains into the sea.  I believe He tied the two actions together without missing a beat because a single generation would grasp the both of them in the same historical season - ours.

Think of watching the minute hand move on a clock face - we hardly see it moving even though it might be in constant motion.  A similar challenge is with plants - it's almost impossible to visually observe the motion of their growth.  The goal of the John 14:12 Agronomy Arduino training aid is to display a magnified view of the effect on a plant of someone's civil sentiments towards it so a person can see that effect on a plant much more readily.  As far as I'm concerned, you could also use the term "telempathic" to emphasize the fact that you'll need to exert empathetic type of effort towards the plant to obtain successful results.  My selection of the term "agronomy" promotes the *beneficial* use instead of the easier and more popular *destructive* use of our telempathic effects on plants.  The destructive aspect of telempathy towards plants was demonstrated on the Mythbuster's television program episode "Deadly Straw".  Just for clarity, their use of the word "straw" in that title was refering to a different and unrelated topic.

Did you ever watch a theatrical performance or movie and be so caught up in it that you were, like, disoriented for a while afterwards?  A good performance can do that to people.  Admittedly, it can be a weakness that we are susceptible to such phsychological manipulation, but on the other hand wouldn't you agree that it can be used for good as well?  How about like this - enhancing gardening with soul-radiated  requires conveyence of civil sentiments towards plants.  I am of the opinion that soul-sourced civility will, yes, revive a plant and will also enlarge kindness in the person practicing this.  Our society is wholesale showing itself to be in dire need of civility.  Embracing and practicing civility will revive life and strength in a society just as surely as incivility will lead to its destruction and death.

If you'll consider just the last two terms "reviving civility" standing alone, they would denote both the effect of civility if thought of as adjective-noun and, if thought of as verb-object, a goal of this project.

(Until hard results transform my motivational conjecture into substantive proof, I'm limited in further purposing, but I'll say this anyway - I'm hoping to incorporate into this project the term "domestic tranquility", given the insane prevelancy of incivility in the U.S. these days.)
