 ### DO NOT OPEN PACKAGING FOR U3 (REF200) UNTIL YOU ARE READY TO SOLDER IT IN PLACE AND SOLDER-SEAL SHLD1 IN PLACE AS A SINGLE STEP!  That IC is a high precision component that is designed to give you highest performance when always kept in a very low humidity environment.  (This is also why SHLD1 and all the micro-vias under it should be solder-sealed into hermetically sealed containment.)  If you open that package too soon, here are the instructions to remedy: 
 1. Calculated shelf life in sealed bag: 12 months at <40C and <90% RH from bag seal date.
 2. Peak component body temperature for soldering: 260C(500F)
 3. After bag is opened, devices that will be subjected to reflow solder or other high temperature process must be 
   a) Mounted within 168 hrs of factory conditions of <30C/60% RH, or
   b) Stored per J-STD-033
 4. Devices require bake before mounting if:
   a) Humidity indicator card reads >10%
   b) When 3a or 3b are not met
 5. If baking is required, refer to IPC/JEDEC J-STD-033 for bake procedure.

THIS PROJECT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO BUILD.  If you think you can do it without using loupes and possibly a microscope, I'll bet against your success.  The loupes will be needed when you need true color and highest resolution to differentiate between metallic and non-metallic specks, when and if you can provide the lighting and short focal distance they need.  The microscope would be useful when you need an adjustable focal range and can tolerate the lack of honesty about the resolution and operating system compatibility from the manufacturer, and inability to adjust color and lighting settings adequately.  If you can find in your heart to get a microscope, you'll be able to put it to good use later to visually magnify growth of the plant at the ends of branches as yet another means of real-time feedback.  If I could have designed the circuit to employ components packaged in more manageable sized packaged, believe me, I would have done so.  Between U1, U2, and U3 there is no getting around using the microscopic packages that the component manufacturers decided upon, so the remainder of the packages might as well follow suit, IMHO.

I can't envision anyone successfully building this circuit board who doesn't know what a short and open is and who doesn't know why and how to both visual and meter for them, and meter for voltage and resistance.  Please don't embark on building this yourself without that level of knowledge.

The hardest aspect of construction might be soldering the SMDs.  You might not expect this, but will be easier if you understand about eutectic composition of alloys if soldering to a plated or tinned board, as well as gold embrittlement of solder.  The plating/tinning supplied by the board manufacturer cross contaminates the solder you are adding, making your solder's melting point higher, which tends to de-wet the pads.  The only exception would be if the manufacturer tinned the pads with eutectic solder and your solder was of the same elemental metals and also eutectic or only slightly non-eutectic.  If your board is plated rather than tinned, or tinned with some alloy dissimilar to your solder, you'll have to brute force it by using 30-50° F hotter soldering temperature than your solder liquidus temperature, with 30-50° C (54-90° F) hotter actually being the official industry recommendation.  Yes, this does apply even for precious metal plated. Note that bismuth cross contaminated by lead is to be avoided at all costs due to any lead whatsoever will always weaken that solder by forming 95C melting point aspects within the final joint.  Therefore bismuth solder is suitable for use only on boards made to be lead-free.  I haven't noticed bare copper boards to have the problem of cross contamination de-wetting, but you should realize that copper oxidizes so quickly that you will likely need rosin/flux applied along with the solder to de-oxidize pads on a bare copper board.  Also note that total removal of any gold plating is mandated by industry wisdom if using SnPb solder.  (All solder has the Sn component so you might as well accept the understanding that gold and lead must not be mixed in the final solder joint..."wash" the ENIG off by double tinning before soldering with any solder with Pb is the necessary practice.  An exception might be for an In-containing solder that actually turns the lead beneficial for use with gold if done right.)  If you find yourself being frustrated by components not taking solder, my first guess would be that you mixed solders.

I'm hoping the latest addition of place-assist holes around the fine-pitch components will permit use of lead-free HASL instead of ENIG if you're willing to use straight pins to position those components.  These holes are placed surrounding the fine pitch components without any particular right or wrong technique for their use other than, if used, they absolutely must be used non-destructively.  Those that are more distant from the footprint may need spacer items used adjacent to the straight pins/carbon fibers.  Along that line, Kapton tape might be a great spacer item.
 
If you try to use solid solder with Kapton tape holding things together instead of paste solder and no tape, it will take longer for the pad to heat up using hot air, so stay on the solder an extra 15-20 seconds after you see it melt.  You may consider adding a dab of solder flux to the solder and component in that scenario just to help heat the pad quicker.  I had success when I only covered half of the component plus the tiny, appropriately sized bits of solder one at each end; the air could reach half the pads and component one side of their center line.  To keep any of the three pieces from blowing away, I dabbed a tiny bit of rosin on them as well.  The size of that most difficult component (spec'd for a 0201 footprint) is even smaller than merely one solder-pad end of a 0603 component, and I used tin/silver (Sn97Ag3) solder, just so you know.  That takes care of the most difficult combination for soldering technique anyone would think to choose, I'm sure.  If you purchase the components from my BOM, you won't see that sized component because when I saw how microscopic it is, I changed the BOM so as to get it in the 0603 package.  However on the PCB layout as of this moment, I have the component footprint doubled 0603 and 0201 so I can use up my 0201 packages while keeping the same PCB design the rest of you have.

In summary, I recommend bismuth paste solder for components with more than two leads and as long as you realize you need to get it hotter while cleansing new plating.   When I build a board _without_ paste or cream solder, I'll expect two solder attempts.  The first is with 97% tin, 3% silver solid solder (especially on two leaded components) and the second pass is spot soldering with bismuth solder of any kind after microscopic inspection of all joints.  I will diligently avoid having Pb solders in the area whenever I have any hopes to use bismuth solders, ever.  I will avoid tinning the through plating of PTH (Plated Through Holes), but will tin those annular rings with bismuth solder.

NEW! Found this solder type mentioned that may obsolete the above paragraph:
"SAC305 is pretty much the best thing since the invention of the banana, and will reliably bond anything to anything"  source: https://hackaday.com/2017/05/10/designing-for-fab-a-heads-up-before-designing-pcbs-for-professional-assembly/#comments.  Upon further investigation, this solder is high-temp, just so you know.

For anyone searching sites that give soldering tips, be aware that most boards are single side components while this project provides the design for components on both sides.  So remember that you'll be soldering components to the second side while the first side's components must not fall off from getting their solder re-flowed.  Decide how you'll keep that first side cool while soldering the second side.

Electrodes are vaporware as of yet: I'm hoping to use non-impregnated carbon fiber tow, not the prepreg tow.  The carbon fiber must establish its electrical connection to the circuit via gold plated contact or else corrosion will ensue.  Alternatives to gold are fewer and more rare.

Hours of my development time has been wasted because I had no solder wick left.  Do yourself a favor and make sure to have solder wick available.

Link to BOM: https://github.com/kenneth558/plant_resistance_primary_perception/blob/Free/Where%20to%20find%20everything%20for%20making%20your%20own%20GWAAMC%20device/On%20buying%20the%20components/BOM%20PCB%20Ordering%20links.md

NOTE IF 3.3V OPERATION IS DESIRED:  Pin 5 of J2 will have to be omitted and the pad of the adjacent pin 4 J2 will have to be shorted over to the pad of that pin 5.  I neglected to leave room for the jumper to do this.  Sorry!   Only do this when pin 2 of ICSP1 from the MCU is also providing +3.3V!!!!
